---
title:  "ML Brings the Great Masters Back to Life"
modified: 2017-20-01
categories: 
  - Jekyll
tags:
  - Machine Learning, Art, Painting 
---

Data science for me was just a field to extract knowledge and insight from data. You could do fantastic(!) things for your company like making predictions for the next years' sales or recommending a new movie to your customer! I knew that the market was paying much for this kind of job and I should have started from somewhere for a career change. But somehow, it was sounding boring and I was dragging my feet until last April.  It was one of those mornings when I saw the news about bringing back the master from 17th-century to life again to create his new piece of work. And wow! What was it? As a data science career candidate, I was attracted to the topic...  
{: style="text-align: justify;"}

[Rembrandt van Rijn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rembrandt), famed Dutch artist, was no longer alive but over 150,000 fragments were taken from his body of work to comprise his new painting. I was aware of the power of the big data but this was something different. This is art and how could a program imitate an artist indistinguishably?  
{: style="text-align: justify;"}

> *“We are using a lot of data to improve business life, but we haven’t been using data that much in a way that touches the human soul. You could say that we are using technology and data like Rembrandt used his paints and his brushes to create something new.”*

> <cite><a href="http://news.microsoft.com/europe/features/the-next-rembrandt-blurring-the-lines-between-art-technology-and-emotion-2/#sm.0001gcd6kq14x6ey5r88rnfrkgk06">Ron Augustus, Director SMB Markets, Microsoft</a></cite>  


<iframe width="600" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IuygOYZ1Ngo" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

{% include toc title="Getting Started" %}

[`minimal-mistakes-jekyll`](https://rubygems.org/gems/minimal-mistakes-jekyll) can only be used with Jekyll proper. If you're hosting on GitHub Pages or using that gem the theme won't work. 3rd party themes haven't been white-listed so it's a no go for now.

Fine with all that? Great. Let's continue.

If you're migrating a site already using Minimal Mistakes and haven't customized any of the `_includes`, `_layouts`, `_sass` partials, or `assets` this should be quick and painless.

## Step 1: Remove Theme Files 

Remove `_includes`, `_layouts`, `_sass`, `assets` folders and files within. You won't need these anymore as they're bundled in the theme.

If you customized any of these then leave them alone and only remove the untouched ones. If setup correctly your modified versions should act as [overrides](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults) to the versions bundled with the theme.

## Step 2: Update `Gemfile`

Replace `gem "github-pages` or `gem "jekyll"` with `gem "jekyll", "~> 3.3.0"`. You'll need the latest version of Jekyll[^update-jekyll] for Minimal Mistakes to work and load all of the /assets/ properly.

[^update-jekyll]: You could also run `bundle update jekyll` to update Jekyll.

Add the Minimal Mistakes theme gem: 

```ruby
gem "minimal-mistakes-jekyll"
```

When finished your `Gemfile` should look something like this:

```ruby
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem "jekyll", "~> 3.3.0"
gem "minimal-mistakes-jekyll"
```

## Step 3: Run Bundler

Run `bundle install` (or `bundle update` if you're updating an existing repo) to install/update Jekyll and the theme.

## Step 4: Install the Theme

Add `theme: "minimal-mistakes-jekyll"` to your `_config.yml` file.

If you're migrating from an existing Minimal Mistakes site you shouldn't have to change anything else after this. If it's a new site consult then docs to [properly config]({{ "/docs/configuration/" | absolute_url }}).

**Please Note:** Paths for image headers, overlays, teasers, [galleries]({{ "/docs/helpers/#gallery" | absolute_url }}), and [feature rows]({{ "/docs/helpers/#feature-row" | absolute_url }}) have changed and now require a full path. Instead of just `image: filename.jpg` you'll need to use the full path eg: `image: assets/images/filename.jpg`. The preferred location is now `assets/images` but can be placed elsewhere or external hosted. This all applies for image references in `_config.yml` and `author.yml` as well.
{: .notice--danger}

## Step 5: `jekyll new` Tweaks

If this is a new site be sure to add the following files to `_data/` and customize as you see fit. There is currently no way of bundling them in with the theme, so be sure to consult the docs on how to properly use both.

- [`_data/ui-text.yml`](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/blob/master/_data/ui-text.yml) - UI text [documentation]({{ "/docs/ui-text/" | absolute_url }})
- [`_data/navigation.yml`](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/blob/master/_data/navigation.yml) - navigation [documentation]({{ "/docs/navigation/" | absolute_url }})

You'll also need to: 

- Replace `<site root>/index.html` with a modified [Minimal Mistakes `index.html`](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/blob/master/index.html).
- Change `layout: post` in `_posts/0000-00-00-welcome-to-jekyll.markdown` to `layout: single`.
- Remove `about.md`, or at the very least change `layout: page` to `layout: single` and remove references to `icon-github.html` (or [copy to your `_includes`](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master/_includes) if using).

---

That's it! If all goes well running `bundle exec jekyll serve` should spin-up your site. If you encounter any bumps please file an issue on GitHub and make sure to indicate you're testing the pre-release Ruby gem version.

[File an issue](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/issues/new){: .btn .btn--info .btn--large}

Thanks!
